docs: Monitoring doc for Kubernetes (#1397)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/manage/shared/monitoring/_infrastructure-resources.mdx

import Link from '@docusaurus/Link';

The underlying infrastructure of your system should have sufficient margins to handle peaks in processing, storage, and I/O loads. Monitor infrastructure health with the following queries.

#### CPU usage

For the total CPU uptime, monitor <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_uptime_seconds_total'}>`redpanda_uptime_seconds_total`</Link>. Monitoring its rate of change with the following query can help detect unexpected dips in uptime:

```
rate(redpanda_uptime_seconds_total[5m])
```

> For the total CPU busy (non-idle) time, monitor <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_cpu_busy_seconds_total'}>`redpanda_cpu_busy_seconds_total`</Link>. Monitoring its rate of change, the percentage a CPU core ("shard") is in use at a given point in time, with the following query can help detect unexpected idling:

Author: How about:

```suggestion
For the total CPU busy (non-idle) time, monitor <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_cpu_busy_seconds_total'}>`redpanda_cpu_busy_seconds_total`</Link>.

To detect unexpected idling, you can query the rate of change as a percentage of the CPU core ("shard") that is in use at a given point in time.
```

cc @shorgi @micheleRP

> For the total CPU busy (non-idle) time, monitor <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_cpu_busy_seconds_total'}>`redpanda_cpu_busy_seconds_total`</Link>. Monitoring its rate of change, the percentage a CPU core ("shard") is in use at a given point in time, with the following query can help detect unexpected idling:

Author: See suggestion below

```
rate(redpanda_cpu_busy_seconds_total[5m])
```

#### Memory allocated

> To monitor the percentage of memory allocated, use a formula with <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_memory_allocated_memory'}>`redpanda_memory_allocated_memory`</Link> and <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_memory_free_memory'}>`redpanda_memory_free_memory`</Link>:

Author: ```suggestion
To monitor the percentage of memory allocated, use a formula with <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_memory_allocated_memory'}><code>redpanda_memory_allocated_memory</code></Link> and <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_memory_free_memory'}><code>redpanda_memory_free_memory</code></Link>:
```

```
sum(redpanda_memory_allocated_memory) / (sum(redpanda_memory_free_memory) + sum(redpanda_memory_allocated_memory))
```

#### Disk used

> To monitor the percentage of disk consumed, use a formula with <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_storage_disk_free_bytes'}>`redpanda_storage_disk_free_bytes`</Link> and <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_storage_disk_total_bytes'}>`redpanda_storage_disk_total_bytes`</Link>: 

Author: ```suggestion
To monitor the percentage of disk consumed, use a formula with <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_storage_disk_free_bytes'}><code>redpanda_storage_disk_free_bytes</code></Link> and <Link to={props.frontmatter && props.frontmatter.linkRoot + 'reference/public-metrics-reference#redpanda_storage_disk_total_bytes'}><code>redpanda_storage_disk_total_bytes</code></Link>: 
```
